# WY3TOEPW
This script is to convert historical weather files stored in WY3 format into EPW format so it could be used for Building Energy Simulation. 

# Brief Background on weather data used in Building Energy Simulation
Building Energy Simulation(BES) is a common practice used to compare and evaluate the relative energy efficiency of different building designs. As part of committing to reduce energy usage and carbon emissions, many jursdications now require building designers to submit building energy models to ensure new buildings are designed to be more energy efficient than corresponding baseline designs(which are modelled based on older energy related building standards). 

One of the essential inputs for BES is weather data. Weather data describes the expected external conditions a proposed building will experience based on its location. The current accepted practice is to use Typical Year weather files(such as TMY- Typical Meteorological Year in the US or CWEC - Canadian Weather for Engineering Calculations in Canada) to run BES. For those who are unfamiliar, Typical Year weather files are created based on statistical methods, the objective is to select 12 representatitve months(each month in a calendar year is represented by a representative month) from 15 to 30 years of historical weather data. While the use of Typical Year weather data in BES generally saves computation time, the weather data itself often lacks representation of more extreme weather conditions, which could be useful for in depth building simulations. Since the status quo for running BES is to use Typical Year weather files, access to historical weather data in formats ready for simulation is often limited. In Canada, we are fortunate to have access to both Typical Year weather files and historical weather data through Environment and Climate Change Canada. However, the historical weather data is only available in wy3 format, which most software used for BES is unable to read directly. There is a need for a conversion tool. 

# Origins of the weather converter project
Previously, I wrote a paper detailing the method I used to convert historical weather data stored in wy3 format into building simulation ready weather files in epw format, (I included link to the paper below for those who are interested). To illustrate the method described in the paper, a script written in the syntax for Matlab was attached. While Matlab is a common tool used by the research community, licenses are relatively expensive for other users. This sparked the idea of creating a convertor in a language that is more accessible to average users - in which I decided to write the new script in Python. 

# How to use this tool
1 - Download the script and place it in the desired folder
1 - Download weather data from the Environment and Climate Change Canada Website
